#summary Track project changes

TODO:
  * Remove optional fields from the default template (eventlog, radiolog, dropbox, deviceid... others ?)  

Trunk:
  * modified: Issue 66 - ReportsCrashes annotation is now @Inherited.
  * modified: handleException() method do not need to return the worker thread anymore
  * fixed: issue 69
  * modified: reduced TOAST wait from 4s to 3s.
  * fixed: stop calling ACRA when ACRA throws an exception but let the native exception handler do its job. Should fix Issue 72.
  * fixed: don't call dumpsys meminfo after on OutOfMemroryError. It looks like it hangs the app. 
  * modified: trying to clarify the logic of deleting/notifying reports on application start.
  * fixed: direct DIALOG mode is working again. The dialog creation has to be the last thing to do before killing the app.
  * fixed: the async wait for toast and sender thread termination was... crap. It is now fixed but the direct DIALOG does not work anymore. Must be a timing issue, which lets me think that this might not be a future proof solution.
  * fixed Issue 84: all email reports got "null crash report" as a title... 
  * modified: removed the DROPBOX, RADIOLOG and EVENTSLOG fields from default report templates. They should be activated only by devs who really need them.
  * new: full dynamic configuration
  * modified: asynchronous wait for Toast display and sender thread termination. No more chance to cause ANR.
  * modified: handleException and handleSilentException do not return the sender Thread anymore.
  * New: direct DIALOG mode, thanks to Julia Segal.
  * modified: lowered the default number of logcat lines to 100
  * New: configuration of resources now possible via setters. This is to fix Issue 85 with ADT 14 from which we can't pass Android Library Projects resources ids to ACRA as they are not final anymore.
  * Overall code cleaning and refactoring (William Ferguson)

ACRA-4.2.3:
ACRA-4.2.3RC:
  * Code cleaning and better files handling => should fix most report duplicates issues. (William Ferguson)

ACRA-4.2.2RC:
  * Fixed: prevent persistent IS_SILENT
  * Fixed: prevent some report duplicates
  * Fixed: prevent persistent USER_COMMENT
  * Fixed: prevent ACRA Crash if getCrashReportFileList() is called without initializing ACRA
  * Fixed: handle 4xx and 5xx http response codes as errors => throw exception and keep report and retry later

ACRA-4.2.1b:
  * Fixed: NOTIFICATION + mailTo was broken

ACRA-4.2.0b:
  * New: Added a SHARED_PREFERENCES field containing K/V pairs of the application default shared preferences + sharedPreferences provided by developer with @ReportsCrashes(additionalSharedPreferences={"my.own.prefs","a.second.prefs"})
  * Fixed: do not send silent reports if acra.enabled or acra.disabled SharedProperties have been set to disable ACRA.
  * Fixed: after application restart with ACRA disabled from SharedPreferences settings, ACRA was not able to detect a change on this setting and reactivate. 
  
ACRA-4.1.0b:
  * Issue 53: new @ReportsCrashes option to let the developer choose to display the Force Close dialog after the Toast.

ACRA-4.0.1b:
  * Forced HttpClient SocketBufferSize to 8192 bytes as it appears that on some devices, the default size is set to a huge 2Mb.
  * Refactoring: extract constants from @ReportsCrashes. This was causing compilations issues with javac.
  * Issue 52: log substring was crashing when using http post with a response < 200 chars.

ACRA-4.0.0b:
  * Fixed: Prevent ACRA from sending report duplicates when sending silent reports in simultaneous threads.
  * New: Added a IS_SILENT field.
  * New: socketTimeout configuration item in ReportsCrashes annotation.
  * Changed: Replaced URLConnection POST implementation with HttpClient HttpPost. Fixes timeouts with Basic Http Auth. Might fix https stability issues.
  * Changed: removed includeDropBox, includeEventsLog and includeRadioLog configuration items. This is now done by customizing reports content. Final default report template will not include these fields.
  * New: Added a SETTINGS_SECURE field for http://developer.android.com/reference/android/provider/Settings.Secure.html content
  * New: Added a SETTINGS_SYSTEM field http://developer.android.com/reference/android/provider/Settings.System.html content
  * New: Added an ENVIRONMENT field for state and details about external storage http://developer.android.com/intl/fr/reference/android/os/Environment.html
  * WontDo: PackageStats could be interesting but there is no public API to retrieve it.
  * New: Added an INSTALLATION_ID field containing http://android-developers.blogspot.com/2011/03/identifying-app-installations.html
  * New: Added a REPORT_ID field based on UUID.
  * New: All reports content can now be customized using ReportsCrashes.customReportContent. It replaces the mailReportFields that had been implemented only for mail reports before. This requires to create your own .csv and import it in GoogleCode.
  * Changed: Build data are now put together in a single column except for data about device model/manufacturer
  * Changed: Moved some report columns to put user related data together
  * New: Issue 46 - added an optional field for user email input in crash dialog. Retrieves and stores value from already implemented SharedPreferene. Field activation similar to user comment (provide a resourceId for its label). 
  * New: Added a DEVICE_FEATURES field http://developer.android.com/intl/fr/reference/android/content/pm/PackageManager.html#getSystemAvailableFeatures()
  * New: Added an USER_APP_START_DATE field
  * New: Added an includeDropBoxSystemTags config option
  * New: added an includeDropBox configuration item with default value to false. This is to avoid any performance issue due to DropBox events collection for people who don't need them.
  * Changed: removed debugging log event when examining SharedPreference update.
  * New: ACRA project has been mavenized: building and releasing is now handled with maven. See [Releasing] and [Maven] pages for details. 
  * Fixed: Issue 42 - prevent ACRA 3.2 from crashing because of pending reports from previous ACRA versions.
  * Fixed: in NOTIFICATION mode, user comments could be attached to wrong reports.
  * Fixed: in SILENT mode, only explicit SILENT exceptions (cast with handleSilentException) were sent on application crash. Standard exception were sent on application restart.
  * Fixed: possible NPE when enabling/disabling ACRA with SharedPreferences.
  * New: Added SharedPreferences items for:
  	* include system logs (may contain private data)
  	* include Device ID (IMEI) (this a private identifier)
  	* include user email (the user inputs his email address in the preference field)
  	* always accept sending reports
  * Changed: default behavior in NOTIFICATION mode when notif has been ignored: on next application start do not respawn the notification and delete non approved reports. A config item has been added to enable the old behaviour back.
  * Changed: renamed some report field names which could be confusing (related to android build)
  * New: added a Toast before collecting crash data
  * New: added 2 fields in reports: application version code (some devs don't always update version name) and phone device ID (IMEI). The latest is retrieved only if permission.READ_PHONE_STATE is granted. This is useful in enterprise apps.
  * New: added a new configuration field for providing the set of fields which should be included in the mail body. 
  * New: as requested in Issue 29, first draft of an Email report sender.
  * New: added 2 parameters (formUriBasicAuthLogin and formUriBasicAuthPassword) to allow BASIC http authentication when using the formUri parameter.
  * Fixed: Issue 31 - in some rare cases, Context.getFilesDir() can return null (this has been filed in android issues: http://code.google.com/p/android/issues/detail?id=8886). ACRA will now log a Warning and won't throw a NPE.
  * Replaced usage of Properties with a specific reimplementation based on Harmony Properties source code:
    * specialization for handling ReportField keys - this is to future exposition of crash report data to ReportSender development
    * get rid of the stupid date comment in store() which leads to 2 seconds wait
  * Created a ReportField enum to list all crash data fields. Will be used in ReportSenders
  * Changed: Added an abstraction layer for Report Senders.
  * New: Added a DumpSysCollector to retrieve the output of "adb shell dumpsys meminfo &lt;pid&gt;"
  * Changed: deleteNonSilentReports() changed to deleteNonApprovedReports(): now deletes reports which are neither silent nor approved.
  * New: added a new 'approved' status to reports which were approved by the user to be sent through the NOTIFICATION mode Dialog. This should allow to avoid issuing a new notification for reports which are still pending because network was not available.
  * Changed: rewrote a part of the reports sending logic to dissociate user comments storage from the global reports sending loop.
  * Changed: eliminated an old Bundle which was used to pass configuration items between various classes. Replaced this with a direct exposition of the ReportsCrashes configuration annotation. This should save some (not much) memory.
  * New: If the application is granted the READ_LOGS permission, reports data include a logcat extract and DropBoxManager events (system tags + developer additional tags).

ACRA-3.1.2:
  * Fixed: use https instead of http for GoogleDocs form post

ACRA-3.1.1:
  * Fixed: Issue 36 - in SILENT mode, only explicit SILENT exceptions (cast with handleSilentException) were sent on application crash. Standard exception were sent on application restart.
  * Fixed: Issue 34 - possible NPE when enabling/disabling ACRA with SharedPreferences.
  * Fixed: Issue 31 - in some rare cases, Context.getFilesDir() can return null (this has been filed in android issues: http://code.google.com/p/android/issues/detail?id=8886). ACRA will now log a Warning and won't throw a NPE.

ACRA-3.1.0: (no changes from 3.1.0-RC1)

ACRA-3.1.0-RC1:
  * Changed: (Issue 15) deprecated addCustomData(), use putCustomData() instead.
  * New: (Issue 15) added getCustomData() and removeCustomData()
  * Fixed: associate user comment from dialog to the latest non silent report instead of latest report.
  * New: (Issue 20) added methods to delete pending silent or non silent reports.
  * Fixed: handleSilentException() was sending all pending reports. Now sends only pending silent reports. (Issue 16)
  * Fixed: when several pending reports are present with both silent and non-silent reports, silent reports were sent first. Now send in chronological order.
  * Fixed: ACRA was logging errors in logcat some specifically caught exceptions which are caused on purpose by ACRA for some android backward compatibility tests.  
  * Fixed performance issues (Issue 19) in report data collection for 1.X android devices (change of Properties storage method only for these android versions). Overall Report data collection time lowered from more than 4 seconds (8 for 1.X devices) to 1-2 seconds (emulator times).
  * Fixed: unwanted Toast notification on application start for Silent reports

ACRA-3.0.0
  * Fixed an issue on the SharedPreferences listener which could lead to user preferences changes for reports activation state not being applied before a full application restart.
  * Fixed Issue 10 : sending a report with handleException() or handleSilentException(), the report was sent on the UI Thread. This could lead to application hanging if network conditions were bad.
  * Addition of 5 fields in the reports:
    * initial_config: the Configuration on application start
    * crash_config: the Configuration when the application crashed
    * display: display specs
    * user_comment: user comment has now it's own field and is not added in the dev custom data anymore
    * user_crash_date: the user exact local date/time of the crash (the google doc timestamp is the report reception time, but the transmission might have been delayed from the real crash time)
  * ACRA Configuration is now based on a @ReportsCrashes annotation and not on extending CrashReportingApplication anymore. See [http://acra.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/CrashReport/javadoc/org/acra/annotation/ReportsCrashes.html @ReportsCrashes javadoc] for configuration details.

ACRA-2.1.0
  * Status Bar Notification / Dialog
    * Relaunching crashed app from home key recent app shortcut should not display crash report dialog again (Issue 6). You will need to update your manifest to add two attributes to your {{{CrashReportDialog}}} Activity declaration ({{{excludeFromRecents and finishOnTaskLaunch}}}):
    {{{    
    <activity android:name="org.acra.CrashReportDialog"
        android:theme="@android:style/Theme.Dialog"
        android:launchMode="singleInstance"
        android:excludeFromRecents="true"
        android:finishOnTaskLaunch="true" />
    }}}

  * Pending on-demand silent notifications (Issue 7). When using ACRA with Toast or Notification mode, sending a silent report with {{{ErrorReporter.handleSilentException()}}} could result to a user notification if the silent report could not be sent immediately. There was nothing stored indicating that it was silent so they were processed like any other crash report. This should now be fixed in ACRA 2.1. 

  * Provide a way to override the preferences name for storing 'acra.disable' (Issue 4). You can now override {{{CrashReportingApplication.getACRASharedPreferences()}}} in your {{{Application}}} class and return any SharedPreferences object. ACRA will listen to changes on these {{{SharedPreferences}}} to detect user enabling/disabling crash reports in your preferences screen. If you don't override the method, the {{{Application}}} default {{{SharedPreferences}}} are used.

  * Provide a way to let the developers chose to make users *check* a preference *to enable* crash reports (requested in a comment of Issue 4) instead of *checking to disable*. You can now alternatively use the preference name '{{{acra.enable}}}'. It has the opposite effect of '{{{acra.disable}}}'. 