= Contributions =

Here are contributions developed by ACRA users. If you want to submit your own work, you can introduce it to the [http://groups.google.com/group/acra-discuss acra-discuss group].

== ReportSender implementations ==

With ACRA v4 you can create [http://code.google.com/p/acra/wiki/AdvancedUsage#Implementing_your_own_sender your own ReportSender] implementations.

Here is a list of contributed ReportSenders:

  * JSON Sender : [https://github.com/x2on/android-acra-json-sender sender] + [https://github.com/x2on/android-acra-server PHP server app] by [https://www.felixschulze.de/ Felix Schulze] / [http://www.x2on.de/ X2ON]
  
== Reports analysis tools ==
  
Some people are working on tools to help you sort, filter, clean, analyze your reports:

  * [http://zegoggl.es/2011/01/analysing-android-error-reports-using-the-google-visualisation-api.html Analysing Android error reports using the Google visualisation API] by [http://zegoggl.es/about.html Jan Berkel]
  * [https://github.com/MegaDevs/ACRA_LogTracker LogTracker] : a Java desktop app for reports filtering by [http://www.megadevs.com/megadevs/ MegaDevs]
  * [https://groups.google.com/d/msg/acra-discuss/6FxV1TuC0F4/Nb_lc9dU__cJ Code sample to filter/delete/colorize spreadsheet's entries] by mot12 on [http://groups.google.com/group/acra-discuss acra-discuss]

== Alternative backends ==

  * [http://www.bugsense.com Bugsense] Android, iOS, AppEngine and Windows Phone bug analysis platform
  * [https://github.com/sghael/ACRA-Catcher] a Rails report catcher, developed by [http://www.getravid.com/ the Ravid team]
  * [http://www.vaudaux-ruth.com/android-log-collecting-with-acra-and-logentries LogEntries], log management service
  * [http://support.hockeyapp.net/kb/client-integration-android/how-to-use-acra-with-hockeyapp Hockeyapp] OSX, iOS and Android beta distribution platform and crash reports collection.
  * [http://www.zubhium.com Zubhium] , platform dedicated to Android applications beta distribution, crash analytics and users support.
  * https://github.com/BicouQ/crashreportsviewer/blob/master/README.md basic opensource PHP backend by Benoit Duffez

== Scripting GDocs spreadsheet ==

This is an area where lots of contribution could be made but unfortunately there are few people writing google apps scripts.

=== Delete oldest rows automatically ===
by Ronen

As google spreadsheets are limited to 400K cells, it's a good idea to
have a script that cleans it automatically. If you reach the limits
your sheet may not open anymore!
This script can be triggered periodically automatically.
Simply go to Tools->Script Editor and paste the following script. Then
go to Resources->Current script's triggers and set your time-driven
trigger.
From what I've read, you won't be able to keep more than ~11K rows
without reaching the limits.
BE CAREFUL AND CHANGE THE SCRIPT FOR YOUR NEEDS AS IT WILL DELETE ROWS
FROM YOUR SPREADSHEET!

{{{
function acraCleanup() {
  var rowsToKeep = 5000; //CHANGE TO YOUR DESIRED NUMBER OF ROWS TO
KEEP.
  var rows = SpreadsheetApp.getActiveSheet().getLastRow();
  var numToDelete = rows - rowsToKeep  -1;
  SpreadsheetApp.getActiveSheet().deleteRows(2, numToDelete);
}
}}}